labs: add stm32 to lab01 (#640)
UPB-PMRust/website: website/lab/01/index.mdx

# 01 - Debug

> This lab will teach you how to debug and run programs written in Rust and [embassy](https://embassy.dev) on the Raspberry Pi Pico and NUCLEO-STM32 boards.

Reviewer: I suggest putting the STM32 Nucleo-U545RE-Q first

- How to debug a microcontroller's firmware
- How the binary of the firmware looks like and how to inspect it
- How to cross-compile Rust software

> - How to use `probe-rs` for RP2/STM32 processors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How to use `probe-rs` for STM32/RP2 processors
```

:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="stm32u5" label="STM32 Nucleo-U545RE-Q" default>
    ### ST-LINK/V3SET Debug Probe
  The Nucleo-STM32U545RE-Q development board can be debugged using the following methods:
  - On-board ST-LINK/V3-E Debugger (included with the Nucleo board)
  - External SWD Debug Probe (optional, if bypassing or replacing the on-board debugger)

Professional debuggers, while offering a lot of features, are usually expensive. STMicroelectronics provides the ST-LINK/V3SET, an affordable and versatile in-circuit debugger and programmer designed specifically for STM32 microcontrollers.

The ST-LINK firmware is maintained by ST and is regularly updated through STM32CubeProgrammer. It is proprietary but widely supported across ST’s software ecosystem, including STM32CubeIDE, OpenOCD, and many others third-party options.

Unlike custom open-source probes, the ST-LINK hardware and firmware are tightly integrated with STM32 development tools and come with professional-grade features like drag-and-drop programming (in mass storage mode), high-speed transfers, and support for multiple power configurations.

> For wiring and pinout information, refer to the ST-LINK/V3SET’s [user manual](https://www.st.com/resource/en/user_manual/um1075-stlinkv2-incircuit-debuggerprogrammer-for-stm8-and-stm32-stmicroelectronics.pdf) which includes details on connecting to SWD/JTAG interfaces.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion

::: info

If using an external STLink device, please refer to the ST-LINK/V3SET’s [user manual](https://www.st.com/resource/en/user_manual/um1075-stlinkv2-incircuit-debuggerprogrammer-for-stm8-and-stm32-stmicroelectronics.pdf) which includes details on connecting to SWD/JTAG interfaces.  

:::
```

When working in Rust for the STM32U545, tools such as `rust-objdumb` can be used to inspect the compiled binary and analyze its memory layout. The output includes various sections that are crucial for embedded development.
  
  | Section         | Fixed Offset  | Description |
|----------------|--------------|-------------|
| *`.vector_table`* | `0x08000000` | Reset vector and interrupt table. The CPU fetches the initial stack pointer and reset handler from here after reset. |
| *`.text`* | `0x08000238` | Stores executable code, typically placed in flash memory. Optimizing this section can reduce flash usage and improve execution efficiency. |
| *`.rodata`* | `0x080112F0` | Contains read-only data, such as string literals and constants, stored in flash memory. Helps minimize RAM usage. |
| *`.data`* | `0x20000000` (load image at `0x08014780`) | Includes initialized variables that are stored in flash and copied to RAM during startup. Used for global and static variables requiring predefined values. |
| *`.bss`* | 	`0x20000050` | Represents uninitialized variables that are zeroed out in RAM before execution. Large `.bss` sections can impact RAM availability. |
  </TabItem>

>   <TabItem value="rp2350" label="Raspberry Pi Pico/Raspberry Pi Pico 2" default>

Author: In the original version we don't have a separated tab for Pico 1, but I will add now.

All you have to do is to make sure you are building a binary that does not depend on `std`, has no `main` function
and provides an **empty panic handler**.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="vscode" label="Visual Studio Code" default>

> To prevent `rust-analyzer` from showing an error on the first line and to automatically

Reviewer: Place a link to *Editor Setup*. Make sure to state in the text that rust-analyser needs to be configured not to build all targets.

The `"allTargets": false` is written in a different way depending on the editor.
